# Swire Coca-Cola Project

## Objective Summary
  - Swire Coca-Cola faces an issue with identifying customers in their book of business to offload to White Truck services within their US market. Businesses/customers currently on Red Truck services take up a lot of resources.  Additionally, there is a need to segment and profile customers who purchase below 400 gallons per year to guide strategic outreach. Thus, we aim to identify who and who not to offload onto the White Truck services.
  - The primary objective of this project is to build a predictive and descriptive modeling framework that:
    - Identifies customer segments with consistently low ordering volumes.
    - Predicts whether a customer is likely to purchase fewer than 400 gallons in Year 2.
    - Explores operational and demographic characteristics (e.g., LMP status, CO2 status, delivery channels) to uncover behavioral patterns.
    - Supports targeted engagement strategies by clustering customers based on ordering behavior and profile.
## Solution
  - Various solutions were reached in the approach to this problem.  With an emphasis on cost savings and potential revenue, we suggested new yearly order thresholds for offloading customers to 3rd party distribution services.  Cost savings figures were estimated to be ~$10.3m, with revenue retention totaling over $200m. Utilizing supervised learning techniques, we were able to confidently predict likelihood of local market partnership for new customers, which was a key market for S.C.C.U..  LMP membership was found to be a strong indicator for high order growth.  Additionally,  analysis was done on the existing order threshold for S.C.C.U.. Using both k-prototype and density based clustering, we make note of attributes for customers who currently order below the 400 gallon per year threshold but have high growth potential, as well as customers with declining month-by-month orders.  Clusters were also used in geographical analysis of customer locations to suggest logistical plans for high and low potential customers.
## Personal Contribution 
  - Prior to modeling, I performed standard exploratory data analysis to provide exploratory insights into the historical data pertaining to Swire Coca Cola.  This consisted of various preparation steps and transformations intended to provide usable data for analytical usage, and discover patterns or attributes of interest to aid in solving the presented business problem.  For the data modeling process, I performed Principle Component Analysis, ARIMA-based forecasting, and various clustering methods.  The reasoning behind PCA was to identify customer attributes that strongly contribute to their respective order amounts, in cases and gallons. ARIMA forecasting was then performed on specific customer groups and Principle Components to observe seasonal ordering patterns and predictions for future orders placed by these customers and those with highly important features observed in PCA.  Clustering was performed in order to find interesting relationships between customers and their ordering habits, for customers who order below and above the existing yearly cutoff threshold.  Specifically, I aimed to seek out common characteristics for customers who tend to have similar order patterns, and apply these methods based on monthly and yearly order totals. I continued to emphasize the two customer groups of interest, gallon-only Local Market Partners, and all customers, in these unsupervised models.
      - [Exploratory Data Analysis](https://github.com/CSJoyce/Swire-Project/blob/main/cc_eda.Rmd)
      - [PCA and Forecasting](https://github.com/CSJoyce/Swire-Project/blob/main/SCC_modeling.ipynb)
      - [Clustering](https://github.com/CSJoyce/Swire-Project/blob/main/cc_modeling.Rmd)
## Business Value 
  - In this project, we were able to estimate overall cost savings from offloading customers without growth potential, and capture possibly forfeited revenue from those who show potential growth who would otherwise be offloaded to white truck services.  We provided suggestions for new metrics that should be utilized to maximize revenue from customers that can confidently be kept on red truck logistic services.  Additionally, we discovered insights for shared attributes among high and low potential customers to provide Swire with profiles to compare newly signed customers with these groups, and suggested logistic plans for non-qualifying customers based on their proximity to "hubs" of existing customers who can be easily served with red truck distribution.
## Reflection 
  - As a group, we encountered issues with preliminary compilation of our findings into a concise storyboard.  It seemed that while our individual conclusions provided valuable potential solutions to the problem, they did not mesh well together to provide an overall case.  With this in mind, we discussed a main theme to base our findings off of that both solved the business problem and did not require major revisions to our individual efforts.  Personally, I learned that it is unwise to "zero in" on specific modeling methods and try to force them to work in alignment with the overall objective.  In other words, I was working for the models rather than have the models work for me!  With this in mind, I should have considered spreading my efforts across various methods, and focus only on those that could provide real business value while staying within the boundaries of the group objective.

